# Custom Integration with Appranix

- [About Appranix](#about-appranix)
- [Integration](#integrating-with-appranix)
  - [Appranix CLI](#appranix-cli)
  - [Appranix CLI commands](#appranix-cli-commands)
    - [set Appranix URL](#set-appranix-url)
    - [set Output Format](#set-output-format)
    - [set Response Timeout](#set-response-timeout)
    - [set Appranix Token](#set-appranix-token)
    - [set Appranix Organization](#set-appranix-organization)
    - [set Appranix Assembly](#set-appranix-assembly)
    - [update Build Number](#update-build-number)
    - [commit Design](#commit-design)
    - [pull Design](#pull-design)
    - [commit Environment Changes](#commit-environment-changes)
    - [deploy Environment](#deploy-environment)
    - [check Deployment Status](#check-deployment-status)

# About Appranix

[Appranix](http://www.appranix.com/) simplifies and automates application operations on cloud platforms.

The [Appranix documentation](https://app.appranix.net/docs/) provides a great guide to getting started, and the instructions below have more information on integrating any CI tool with Appranix.

# Integrating with Appranix

Before integrating your CI tool with Appranix it is advised that you manually configure and design your [platform](../configurations/4.3.1.1-create-platform.html). The platform will be deployed in an [Environment](../configurations/4.3.2.1-create-environment.html) with your final build values.

<h3 id="appranix-cli">Appranix CLI</h3>

Appranix simplifies your application deployment using Command Line Interface. Install [Appranix CLI](../cli/8-appranix-cli.html#install-appranix-cli) to easily connect with Appranix and perform continuous deployment.

<h3 id="appranix-cli-commands">Appranix CLI commands</h3>

Appranix CLI commands lets you push configuration changes to a Platform and trigger a deployment.

The below commands lets you connect with Appranix and perform continuous deployment,

<h6 id="set-appranix-url">set Appranix URL</h6>
```bash
prana config set site=https://app.appranix.net/web -g
```
The above command sets the Appranix host site URL to connect and all the connections will use either NAT or HTTP proxy(default proxy config) as available in the operating system.
<br>
<h6 id="set-output-format">set Output Format</h6>
```bash
prana config set format=json -g
```
The above command sets the output format to json. It can be set to console, yaml, xml and pretty_json. The default format is console.
<br>
<h6 id="set-response-timeout">set Response Timeout</h6>
```bash
prana config set --timeout=0 -g
```
The above commands the sets the HTTP response timeout in seconds. specify 0 to disable the timeout.
<br>
<h6 id="set-appranix-token">set Appranix Token</h6>
```bash
prana auth set_token ${TOKEN}
```
The above command sets the API token for user authentication.
<br>
<h6 id="set-appranix-organization">set Appranix Organization</h6>
```bash
prana config set organization=${SUBORG}
```
The above command sets the Organization, under which all the resources are logically grouped in Appranix.
<br>
<h6 id="set-appranix-assembly">set Appranix Assembly</h6>
```bash
prana config set assembly=${ASSEMBLY} -g
```
The above command sets the Assembly, where you manage the delivery of your services in Appranix.
<br>
<h6 id="update-build-number">update Build Number</h6>
```bash
prana design variable update -a ${ASSEMBLY} --platform=${PLATFORM} artifact_version=${CI_BUILD_NUMBER}
```
The above command updates the configuration of the platform design by adding the latest build number of the artifact.
<br>
<h6 id="commit-design">commit Design</h6>
```bash
prana design commit design-commit
```
The above command commits the updated design created by the change in the platform configuration.
<br>
<h6 id="pull-design">pull Design</h6>
```bash
prana configure pull -e ${Environment}
```
The above command pulls the updated design to the Environment.
<br>
<h6 id="commit-environment-changes">commit Environment Changes</h6>
```bash
prana configure commit environment-commit -e ${Environment}
```
The above command commits the changes to the Environment.
<br>
<h6 id="deploy-environment">deploy Environment</h6>
```bash
prana configure deployment create -e ${Environment}
```
The above command initiates the Environment deployment.
<br>
<h6 id="check-deployment-status">check Deployment Status</h6>
```bash
prana operations environment check_deployment_status -e ${Environment}
```
The above command returns the status of the running deployment in an Environment if we require the final state of the deployment triggered by the previous command.
