# Create Teams

To create a new team,

1. Click on **current organization** in navigation bar > **settings icon** <i class="fa fa-cog"></i> near the organization name or **settings icon** in the Navbar
2. Select the **Teams** tab
3. Click on the **Add** button to create a new team
4. Mention the following details in the Team details page:
  - Name: Specify a name for the team.
  - Description: A brief description about the purpose of the team Access Management
  - Manage access: When checked it allows team members to manage other team assignments and create new clouds and assemblies.
  - Organization scope: When checked this team will automatically have access to all assemblies and clouds in the organization
  - Cloud Permissions: Allows members to have a complete view of the cloud with limited or complete write/execute privileges depending upon the selected permissions listed below
    - Services: When checked and this team is added to a cloud or has Organization Scope, it allows team members to manage cloud services, for example, add/update/delete cloud services.
    - Compliance: When checked and this team is added to a cloud, it allows team members to approve deployment, involving the corresponding cloud. For example, if a team has this permission and there is one cloud named qa-azure1 with compliance object added, then all deployments involving the qa-azure1 cloud would require an approval. This approval can be granted by admin or members of this team’s.
    - Support: When checked and this team is added to a cloud, it allows team members to approve deployment, involving the corresponding cloud. For example, suppose a team has this permission and there is one cloud named stg-openstack1 with a support object added, then all deployments involving the stg-openstack1 cloud would require an approval. This approval can be granted by admin or members of this team’s.
  - Assembly Permissions: Allows members to have a complete view of the assembly with limited or complete write/execute privileges depending upon the selected permissions listed below. The permissions are also called DTO (design, transition and operations) permissions.
    - Design: When checked and this team is added to an assembly, it allows the team members to manage the design including add/update/delete platform, components and variables within the assembly
    - Transition: When checked and this team is added to an assembly, it allows team members to manage the transition phase which allows members access to:
      - Add/update/delete environment
      - Add/update/delete component monitor thresholds
      - Update components and variables within the environment
      - Pull design
      - Commit open releases
      - Perform deployments
    - Operations: When checked and this team is added to an assembly, it allows team members to manage the operate phase allowing members access to execute any actions/procedures and mark any instance for replacement.
5. Click **Save** to create a new team

Once the team is created, we can add users and groups to that team. To do so
  - To add **user**
    - Click the team name
    - Click on Add button under User members
    - Mention Username. The user should be within the organization or in base organization. If not, create a [user account](./4.1.2-create-users.md)
    - Click Add User
  - To add **groups**
    - Click the team name
    - Click on Add button under Group members
    - Mention Group name
    - Click Add Group
